Now we're going to speak about calculated items.
So we've explained before the calculated fields.
The calculated fields are fields that we create to make calculations using one or more off
the fields that we have on our pivot tables.
And the fields are basically the columns that we have in our pivot tables.
Right,
However,
calculated items make calculations using the items.
So what's the difference between a field on an item?
A field is basically your column,
but an item is basically the records on your column.
So,
for example,
the sales month is a field.
But the individual months under it are the items off that field.
So January February marsh until December,
they are the items under the sales month field.
OK,
so that's the difference between a field and an item.
So for calculated items,
instead of making calculations using the whole column,
we're gonna make calculations using items under the column.
So,
for example,
we can make a calculation.
For example,
that is the first half of the year.
So maybe you want to calculate the sales on the first half of the year using the months
from January to June,
for example,
so we can do that.
So that strike to do that.
But first of all,
you need to know that in order to create calculations,
uncalculated items,
you need to be selecting the item itself.
Like if you select the number here and then go to pivot table,
analyze and then golden fields,
items and sets,
he could see her.
The option of a calculated item is not there.
So you need to be selecting the item itself that you need to make calculations on.
You can see here we have the option for a calculated item.
Okay,
so you need to be selecting an item under the field that you need to make.
Calculations are.
Okay,
so let's go here it feels items and sets calculated item,
and then I'll create a calculated item called H one and that each one is basically gonna be
sells for January plus February plus Marsh.
It was April plus May plus June,
for example.
This the sales in the first half of the year,
and I'll add that.
Okay,
so now we have the item added to our calculated items.
We could also do the second half of the year as well.
So we can do like July till December before now I'm just going to do the first half of the
year and then I'll click.
OK,
here.
And as you can see here we have a calculated item That is basically the summation off the
months off the first half of the year.
So,
as you can see here,
this number 1,499,564 is the summation of old These numbers,
As you can see here,
it's the same submission.
However,
let's try to add the grand totals to this pivot table.
So I'm gonna go to the design grand totals,
and I'm just gonna put it on for rows and columns.
So,
as you can see here,
this calculated item has been added to the grand total as well.
So this is why I don't use calculated items often because you're you're asking for trouble
right away.
If you're trying to use a calculated item because,
as you can see here,
it's been added to the total.
Okay,
so it's quite dangerous,
actually to use them because you end up having incorrect numbers because,
you know,
this first half of the year should not be calculated twice.
Right?
If you check here,
this total is 4,453,167 which is the same as this one.
So H one has been added to the whole grand total.
And that's dangerous.
OK,
this is why you don't use them.
Instead,
what I would do is I would go to my data,
for example,
and create a column that would be the first half of the year.
H one and I would create the column using a formula on,
then out make calculations based on that column.
And there's actually another work around that you can do,
which is that you can,
for example,
select the months from January till June and then right click on them and then group these
months here,
Okay?
And now you can name this group.
You can name it of H one or first half of the You already have a cookies item so named H
one.
So I'm gonna name it first half,
for example,
because we already have something here called each one,
so it's not gonna accept it from us.
So,
as you can see here Now we have a calculated item called the first half.
Or we could name H one or whatever and let's actually remove the calculated item that is
called H one.
So I'm just going to select one of the items year,
go to calculated item,
and then I'm going to select the H one.
I'm gonna delete that.
I'm gonna click,
OK,
here and then I can name this H one.
So as you can see her now,
we have the same effect.
We've grouped the months for the first half of the year as h one and we have correct
numbers here.
So,
as you consider,
the total sales for the year is 2,953,603 which is the correct total for the whole year.
And we can also go ahead and group the second half of the year as h two as well.
So we can actually group thes into a second group and call that H two and we're set and we
have the same effect here.
We have basically created and calculated item through grouping,
and now we have the correct grand total as well.
So I wouldn't recommend that you'd use calculated items,
often because they are quite dangerous.
Instead,
it's better to do these work arounds,
you know,
to group your items or to create new categories on your data on your raw data and do
calculated field calculations instead of calculated items.
So I'm just mentioning them to you for the sake of being comprehensive on the course so as
to cover that part.
But I myself,
I'm not a fan of calculated items.